README.md, before:

# Notes
App creation : python3 manage.py startapp about
gunicorn: gunicorn my_project.wsgi is the command heroku will use to start the server. It works similarly to python3 manage.py runserver.

psycopg2: psycopg2 is a driver for interacting with PostgreSQL databases using Python. The dj-database-url Python package is a utility to connect Django to a database using a URL.

dj_database_url: The dj_database_url import is used to convert the database URL we copied from the ElephantSQL details tab into a format that Django can use to connect to an external database server.

SECRET_KEY: Another variable considered secret in Django is the SECRET_KEY in settings.py. This is a unique, secret, and random string that is used for cryptographic signing. That means that it ensures the integrity of the data stored in the cookies, forms, and much more, which is essential for the security of your Django application. This is the next thing we need to secure.

Slug: In publishing, a slug is a short name for an article that is still in production. It comes from the lead casts used in print typesetting. You can tell Django was created for the newspaper industry! In Django, the slug is what you'll use to build a URL for each of your posts.

model: So a model is a Python class that defines the structure of a database table. Within the class, we then define fields and their relationships
to fields in other tables.
Fields are the named places where we store single pieces of data, such as a person's
name, email address, or password.

 Django models documentation: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/models/fields/#model-field-types

 Views: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/class-based-views/generic-display/


 Design philosophies: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/misc/design-philosophies/

 Cool URIs don't change: https://www.w3.org/Provider/Style/URI

Summernote Package: pip3 install django-summernote~=0.8.20.0, The ready-made SummernoteModelAdmin class defines the text editor, enabling you to access its functionality in the admin panel for your posts.

Fixtures: they help move data into databases. Think of a fixture as a file containing data tailored to your database. You can use it to save database contents or, as we'll see here, to fill a database for development. We'll work with a JSON fixture, but Django also supports XML and YAML. use python3 manage.py loaddata posts after adding posts.json data.You can now add blog/fixtures/ to the .gitignore file.
Note: You can keep the directory locally, as this technique will be helpful in the future if you run into database errors.


Prepare the project for multiple template directories: TEMPLATES_DIR = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'templates'), Scroll down in the codestar/settings.py file to TEMPLATES and add your newly created TEMPLATES_DIR constant to the list of 'DIRS'.
'DIRS': [TEMPLATES_DIR], Add a new top-level templates directory, Add a new base.html file to your newly created top-level templates directory.
explanation:
Finding our templates
How does Django know where to find the templates?

That is controlled by the TEMPLATES setting in settings.py.
The DIRS key tells Django which directories to look in. This is a Python list, so we add the TEMPLATES_DIR variable, which was set at the top of settings.py.
The TEMPLATES setting also has APP_DIRS set to True, which means that Django will also look for a templates directory inside all our app directories.
Finally, in our project, we set TEMPLATES_DIR value to the templates directory in our base, or top-level directory.

--------
Whitenoise -> Deployment with static files: The deployed app will then look as nicely styled as the local development version. This package will allow your Heroku app to serve its own static files without relying on any external file hosting services like a content delivery network (CDN).

To do this, we will use a Python package named WhiteNoise. pip3 install whitenoise~=5.3.0, python3 manage.py collectstatic , python3 -V(check python version), add python version in runtime.txt file, use heroku link :https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-support#specifying-a-python-version

Run the collectstatic command in the terminal to collect the static files into a staticfiles directory.
Note: The command has created a staticfiles directory that you can see in the left-hand explorer panel. We will explain this in detail in the next topic.
python3 manage.py collectstatic

Return to the Heroku dashboard, and click on the Settings tab and the Reveal config vars button. Remove the DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC key/value pair.

Note: This environment variable prevented collectstatic from running on deploy up till now, but as static files are set up, we can remove this.
--------

As we added static default image, Collect the new static files to the staticfiles directory. Type yes when prompted to overwrite the existing files.

python3 manage.py collectstatic
Note: Only the one new image file in static was copied to staticfiles.

-------------
Filter : https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/templates/builtins/#ref-templates-builtins-filters

-------------
Django All auth
AllAuth offers distinct advantages, such as sending password and account confirmation emails, enforcing password complexity and providing single sign-on using Google or Facebook.
pip3 install django-allauth~=0.57.0
pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt
python3 manage.py migrate

Commit message:

Modify base filte for sign up,in and out and fetch all auth templates for modification as well for login and out

README.md, after:

# Notes
App creation : python3 manage.py startapp about
gunicorn: gunicorn my_project.wsgi is the command heroku will use to start the server. It works similarly to python3 manage.py runserver.

psycopg2: psycopg2 is a driver for interacting with PostgreSQL databases using Python. The dj-database-url Python package is a utility to connect Django to a database using a URL.

dj_database_url: The dj_database_url import is used to convert the database URL we copied from the ElephantSQL details tab into a format that Django can use to connect to an external database server.

SECRET_KEY: Another variable considered secret in Django is the SECRET_KEY in settings.py. This is a unique, secret, and random string that is used for cryptographic signing. That means that it ensures the integrity of the data stored in the cookies, forms, and much more, which is essential for the security of your Django application. This is the next thing we need to secure.

Slug: In publishing, a slug is a short name for an article that is still in production. It comes from the lead casts used in print typesetting. You can tell Django was created for the newspaper industry! In Django, the slug is what you'll use to build a URL for each of your posts.

model: So a model is a Python class that defines the structure of a database table. Within the class, we then define fields and their relationships
to fields in other tables.
Fields are the named places where we store single pieces of data, such as a person's
name, email address, or password.

 Django models documentation: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/models/fields/#model-field-types

 Views: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/class-based-views/generic-display/


 Design philosophies: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/misc/design-philosophies/

 Cool URIs don't change: https://www.w3.org/Provider/Style/URI

Summernote Package: pip3 install django-summernote~=0.8.20.0, The ready-made SummernoteModelAdmin class defines the text editor, enabling you to access its functionality in the admin panel for your posts.

Fixtures: they help move data into databases. Think of a fixture as a file containing data tailored to your database. You can use it to save database contents or, as we'll see here, to fill a database for development. We'll work with a JSON fixture, but Django also supports XML and YAML. use python3 manage.py loaddata posts after adding posts.json data.You can now add blog/fixtures/ to the .gitignore file.
Note: You can keep the directory locally, as this technique will be helpful in the future if you run into database errors.


Prepare the project for multiple template directories: TEMPLATES_DIR = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'templates'), Scroll down in the codestar/settings.py file to TEMPLATES and add your newly created TEMPLATES_DIR constant to the list of 'DIRS'.
'DIRS': [TEMPLATES_DIR], Add a new top-level templates directory, Add a new base.html file to your newly created top-level templates directory.
explanation:
Finding our templates
How does Django know where to find the templates?

That is controlled by the TEMPLATES setting in settings.py.
The DIRS key tells Django which directories to look in. This is a Python list, so we add the TEMPLATES_DIR variable, which was set at the top of settings.py.
The TEMPLATES setting also has APP_DIRS set to True, which means that Django will also look for a templates directory inside all our app directories.
Finally, in our project, we set TEMPLATES_DIR value to the templates directory in our base, or top-level directory.

--------
Whitenoise -> Deployment with static files: The deployed app will then look as nicely styled as the local development version. This package will allow your Heroku app to serve its own static files without relying on any external file hosting services like a content delivery network (CDN).

To do this, we will use a Python package named WhiteNoise. pip3 install whitenoise~=5.3.0, python3 manage.py collectstatic , python3 -V(check python version), add python version in runtime.txt file, use heroku link :https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-support#specifying-a-python-version

Run the collectstatic command in the terminal to collect the static files into a staticfiles directory.
Note: The command has created a staticfiles directory that you can see in the left-hand explorer panel. We will explain this in detail in the next topic.
python3 manage.py collectstatic

Return to the Heroku dashboard, and click on the Settings tab and the Reveal config vars button. Remove the DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC key/value pair.

Note: This environment variable prevented collectstatic from running on deploy up till now, but as static files are set up, we can remove this.
--------

As we added static default image, Collect the new static files to the staticfiles directory. Type yes when prompted to overwrite the existing files.

python3 manage.py collectstatic
Note: Only the one new image file in static was copied to staticfiles.

-------------
Filter : https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/templates/builtins/#ref-templates-builtins-filters

-------------
Django All auth https://docs.allauth.org/en/latest/installation/quickstart.html
AllAuth offers distinct advantages, such as sending password and account confirmation emails, enforcing password complexity and providing single sign-on using Google or Facebook.
pip3 install django-allauth~=0.57.0
pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt
python3 manage.py migrate
From the terminal, check the location of your django-allauth package files on your computer. Copy the file path labelled Location:
You will need this in the next step.
pip3 show django-allauth
Copy the allauth template files to the projects templates directory using this terminal command where <Location> is the file path you copied in the previous step.
cp -r <Location>/allauth/templates/* ./templates/
Open the templates/accounts/logout.html file and replace the code with all the code in this file.
Note: You will update the signup template code in an upcoming topic.
https://github.com/Code-Institute-Solutions/blog/blob/main/11_authorisation/01_allauth/templates/account/login.html
https://github.com/Code-Institute-Solutions/blog/blob/main/11_authorisation/01_allauth/templates/account/logout.html
Source code
https://github.com/Code-Institute-Solutions/blog/tree/main/11_authorisation/01_allauth
